# Landmark Free Education

Everybody seems to be concerned with the state of higher education in our
nation—especially those of us who still have to attend it, be sorted by our
parent’s economic status and be burdened by its enslaving debt. And we, who
believe in the power of education, believe that the time has come to put a stop
to the wanton destruction of our great free institutions of higher learning, to
put a stop to wholesale vandalism of the idea and practice of free education.

The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, one of our city’s
finest Institutions, free for all, established in 1859 by the great citizen and
philanthropist Peter Cooper, is about to come to an end—just as CUNY, Tufts
University, the University of California and many other free institutions of
education were destroyed to make more room for still more profit-making
programs.

It may be too late to save the schools that have fallen, but it is not too late
to save the Cooper Union. As the grandeur of Grand Central Station was saved
from the wreckers through a radical new Landmarks Law, we propose the first
‘non-physical’ Landmark Status designation of an institution, the Cooper Union’s
mission of free education to all enrolled based only on merit, as a preserved
City, State, and National Landmark.

We, the concerned—Students, Architects, Artists, Engineers, Professors,
Professionals, and Citizens of New York and this Country—serve notice upon
present and future would be vandals, that we will fight them every step of the
way. Cooper Union, free for all, has continuously made enlightened contributions
to our society from inception, and is a major part of our heritage. We intend to
see it preserved.
